The information generated from SAR filings plays an important role in identifying potential
illegal activities such as money laundering and terrorist financing, and assists law enforcement in
detecting and preventing the flow of illicit funds through our financial system. It is critical that
the information provided in a SAR filing be as accurate and complete as possible. The SAR
form should include any information readily available to the filing institution obtained through
the account opening process and during due diligence efforts.
In general, a SAR narrative should identify the five essential elements of information – who?
what? when? where? and why? – of the suspicious activity being reported. The method of
operation (or how?) is also important and should be included in the narrative.

Who is conducting the suspicious activity?
While one section of the SAR form calls for specific suspect information,3
 the narrative should
be used to further describe the suspect or suspects, including occupation, position or title within
the business, and the nature of the suspect’s business(es). If more than one individual or
business is involved in the suspicious activity, identify all suspects and any known relationships
amongst them in the Narrative Section. While detailed suspect information may not always be
available (e.g., in situations involving non-account holders), such information should be included
to the maximum extent possible. Addresses for suspects are important; filing institutions should
note not only the suspect’s primary street addresses, but also, other known addresses, including
any post office box numbers and apartment numbers when applicable. Any identification
numbers associated with the suspect(s) other than those provided earlier are also beneficial, such
as passport, alien registration, and driver’s license numbers.
What instruments or mechanisms are being used to facilitate the suspect transaction(s)?
An illustrative list of instruments or mechanisms that may be used in suspicious activity
includes, but is not limited to, wire transfers, letters of credit and other trade instruments,
correspondent accounts, casinos, structuring, shell companies, bonds/notes, stocks, mutual funds,
insurance policies, travelers checks, bank drafts, money orders, credit/debit cards, stored value
cards, and/or digital currency business services. 
In addition, a number of different methods may be employed for initiating the negotiation of
funds such as the Internet, phone access, mail, night deposit box, remote dial-up, couriers, or
others. In summarizing the flow of funds, always include the source of the funds (origination)
that lead to the application for, or recipient use of, the funds (as beneficiary). In documenting the
movement of funds, identify all account numbers at the financial institution affected by the
suspicious activity4
 and when possible, provide any account numbers held at other institutions
and the names/locations of the other financial institutions, including MSBs and foreign
institutions involved in the reported activity.
When did the suspicious activity take place?
If the activity takes place over a period of time, indicate the date when the suspicious activity
was first noticed and describe the duration of the activity. Filers will often provide a tabular
presentation of the suspicious account activities (transactions in and out). While this information
is useful and should be retained, do not insert objects, tables, or pre-formatted spreadsheets when
filing a SAR. These items may not convert properly when keyed in or merged into the SAR
System. Also, in order to better track the flow of funds, individual dates and amounts of
transactions should be included in the narrative rather than just the aggregated amount.
Where did the suspicious activity take place?
Use the Narrative Section to indicate that multiple offices of a single financial institution were
involved in the suspicious activity and provide the addresses of those locations.
Specify if the suspected activity or transaction(s) involve a foreign jurisdiction. If so, provide
the name of the foreign jurisdiction, financial institution, address and any account numbers
involved in, or affiliated with the suspected activity or transaction(s).
Why does the filer think the activity is suspicious?
We suggest that you first describe briefly your industry or business – depository institution,
casino, mortgage broker, securities broker, insurance, real estate, investment services, money
remitter, check casher, etc. Then describe, as fully as possible, why the activity or transaction is
unusual for the customer; consider the types of products and services offered by your industry,
and the nature and normally expected activities of similar customers. 
Examples of some common patterns of suspicious activity are:
• a lack of evidence of legitimate business activity, or any business operations at all,
undertaken by many of the parties to the transaction(s);
• unusual financial nexuses and transactions occurring among certain business types (e.g.,
food importer dealing with an auto parts exporter);
• transactions that are not commensurate with the stated business type and/or that are
unusual and unexpected in comparison with the volumes of similar businesses operating
in the same locale;
• unusually large numbers and/or volumes of wire transfers and/or repetitive wire transfer
patterns;
• unusually complex series of transactions indicative of layering activity involving multiple
accounts, banks, parties, jurisdictions;
• suspected shell entities;
• bulk cash and monetary instrument transactions;
• unusual mixed deposits of money orders, third party checks, payroll checks, etc., into a
business account;
• transactions being conducted in bursts of activities within a short period of time,
especially in previously dormant accounts;
• transactions and/or volumes of aggregate activity inconsistent with the expected purpose
of the account and expected levels and types of account activity conveyed to the financial
institution by the accountholder at the time of the account opening;
• beneficiaries maintaining accounts at foreign banks that have been subjects of previous
SAR filings;
• parties and businesses that do not meet the standards of routinely initiated due diligence
and anti-money laundering oversight programs (e.g., unregistered/unlicensed businesses);
• transactions seemingly designed to, or attempting to avoid reporting and recordkeeping
requirements; and 
• correspondent accounts being utilized as “pass-through” points by foreign jurisdictions
with subsequent outgoing funds to another foreign jurisdiction.5
How did the suspicious activity occur?
Use the Narrative Section to describe the “modus operandi” or the method of operation of the
subject conducting the suspicious activity. In a concise, accurate and logical manner, describe
how the suspect transaction or pattern of transactions was committed. Provide as completely as
possible a full picture of the suspicious activity involved. For example, if what appears to be
structuring of currency deposits is matched with outgoing wire transfers from the accounts, the
SAR narrative should include information about both the structuring and outbound transfers
(including dates, destinations, amounts, accounts, frequency, and beneficiaries of the funds
transfers). 