When all applicable information is gathered, analyzed, and documented and the financial
institution decides that a SAR is required, the information should be described in the SAR
Narrative in a concise and chronological format. Include all elements of the five W’s (Who?
What? When? Where? and Why?) previously discussed in Section 1 of this document, as well
as any other information that can assist law enforcement.
We suggest that you divide the narrative into three sections: an introduction, a body, and a
conclusion.
Introduction:
The introductory paragraph can provide:
• the purpose of the SAR and a general description of the known or alleged violation [In
some instances, this might warrant mentioning at the outset the type of suspicious activity
being observed, such as Informal Value Transfer System (IVTS) operations, smurfing,
shell entities, complex layering activities, structuring, check kiting, embezzlement, etc.];
• the date of any SAR(s) filed previously on the suspect or related suspects and the reason
why the previous SAR(s) was filed;
• whether the SAR is associated with the Office of Foreign Assets Control’s (OFAC)
sanctioned countries or Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons or other
government lists for individuals or organizations;
• any internal investigative numbers used by the financial institution which may be a point
of reference for law enforcement should the investigators wish to contact the institution;
and
• a summary of the “red flags” and suspicious patterns of activity that initiated the SAR.
(This information should be provided either in the introduction or conclusion of the
narrative.)
Body:
The next paragraph or paragraphs of the narrative can provide all pertinent information −
supporting why the SAR was filed and might include:
• any and all relevant facts about the parties (individuals and businesses) who facilitated
the suspicious activity or transactions. Include any unusual observations such as
suspected shell entities; financial activities which are not commensurate with the
expected normal business flows and types of transactions; unusual multiple party relationships; customer verbal statements; unusual and/or complex series of transactions
indicative of layering; lack of business justification and documentation supporting the
activity; etc.;
• a specific description of the involved accounts and transactions, identifying if known,
both the origination and application of funds (usually identified in chronological order by
date and amount);
• breaking out larger volumes of financial activity into categories of credits and debits, and
by date and amount;
• transactor and beneficiary information, providing as much detail as possible, including
the name and location of any involved domestic and/or international financial
institution(s); names, addresses, account numbers, and any other available identifiers of
originator and beneficiary transactor(s) and/or third parties or business entities on whose
behalf the conductor was acting; the date(s) of the transaction(s); and amount(s);
• an explanation of any observed relationships among the transactors (e.g., shared
accounts, addresses, employment, known or suspected business relationships and/or
frequency of transactions occurring amongst them; appearing together at the institution
and/or counter);
• specific details on cash transactions that identify the branch(es) where the transaction(s)
occurred, the type of transaction(s), and how the transaction(s) occurred (e.g., night
deposit, on-line banking, ATM, etc.); and
• any factual observations or incriminating statements made by the suspect.
Conclusion:
The final paragraph of the narrative can summarize the report and might also include:
• information about any follow-up actions conducted by the financial institution (e.g.,
intent to close or closure of accounts, ongoing monitoring of activity, etc.);
• names and telephone numbers of other contacts at the financial institution if different
from the point of contact indicated in the SAR;
• a general description of any additional information related to the reported activity that
may be made available to law enforcement by the institution; and
• names of any law enforcement personnel investigating the complaint who are not already
identified in another section of the SAR. 

Important Reminder:
Please do not include any supporting documentation with your filed report nor use the terms
“see attached” in the Narrative Section. When SAR forms are received at the IRS Detroit
Computing Center (DCC), only information that is in an explicit, narrative format is
keypunched; thus, tables, spreadsheets or other attachments are not entered into the SAR System
database. Keep any supporting documentation in your institution’s records for five years. Law
enforcement will contact you at the appropriate time to review any additional information. 