1 FIN-2020-A003 July 7, 2020 Advisory on Imposter Scams and Money Mule Schemes Related to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Detecting, preventing, and reporting consumer fraud and other illicit activity related to COVID-19 is critical to our national security, safeguarding legitimate relief efforts, and protecting innocent people from harm. This Advisory should be shared with: • Chief Executive Officers • Chief Operating Officers • Chief Compliance Officers • Chief Risk Officers • AML/BSA Departments • Legal Departments • Cyber and Security Departments • Customer Service Agents • Bank Tellers SAR Filing Request: FinCEN requests financial institutions reference this advisory in SAR field 2 (Filing Institution Note to FinCEN) and the narrative by including the following key term: “COVID19 MM FIN-2020-A003” and select SAR field 34(z) (Fraud - other). Additional guidance for filing SARs appears near the end of this advisory. Introduction The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is issuing this advisory to alert financial institutions to potential indicators of imposter scams and money mule schemes, which are two forms of consumer fraud observed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Many illicit actors are engaged in fraudulent schemes that exploit vulnerabilities created by the pandemic. This advisory contains descriptions of imposter scams and money mule schemes, financial red flag indicators for both, and information on reporting suspicious activity. This advisory is intended to aid financial institutions in detecting, preventing, and reporting potential COVID19-related criminal activity. This advisory is based on FinCEN’s analysis of COVID-19-related information obtained from Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) data, open source reporting, and law enforcement partners. FinCEN will issue COVID-19-related information to financial institutions to help enhance their efforts to detect, prevent, and report suspected illicit activity on its website at https://www.fincen.gov/coronavirus, which also contains information on registering to receive FinCEN Updates. F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 2 Financial Red Flag Indicators of COVID-19 Imposter Scams and Money Mule Schemes Consumer frauds include imposter scams and money mule schemes, where actors deceive victims by impersonating federal government agencies, international organizations, or charities. FinCEN identified the financial red flag indicators described below to alert financial institutions to these frauds and to assist financial institutions in detecting, preventing, and reporting suspicious transactions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. As no single financial red flag indicator is necessarily indicative of illicit or suspicious activity, financial institutions should consider additional contextual information and the surrounding facts and circumstances, such as a customer’s historical financial activity, whether the transactions are in line with prevailing business practices, and whether the customer exhibits multiple indicators, before determining if a transaction is suspicious or otherwise indicative of potentially fraudulent COVID-19-related activities. In line with their risk-based approach to compliance with the BSA, financial institutions are also encouraged to perform additional inquiries and investigations where appropriate. Additionally, some of the financial red flag indicators outlined below may apply to multiple COVID-19-related fraudulent activities. Imposter Scams In imposter scams, criminals impersonate organizations such as government agencies, non-profit groups, universities, or charities to offer fraudulent services or otherwise defraud victims. While imposter scams can take multiple forms, the basic methodology involves an actor (1) contacting a target under the false pretense of representing an official organization, and (2) coercing or convincing the target to provide funds or valuable information, engage in behavior that causes the target’s computer to be infected with malware, or spread disinformation.1 1. See Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Business Blog, “Seven Coronavirus Scams Targeting Your Business,” (March 25, 2020). In the case of schemes connected to COVID-19, imposters may pose as officials or representatives from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS),2 2. For information on IRS imposter scams in general, see FTC’s “IRS Imposter Scams Infographic,” (January 2020). the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),3 3. See Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) Public Service Announcement “FBI Sees Rise in Fraud Schemes Related to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic,” (March 20, 2020). the World Health Organization (WHO), other healthcare or non-profit groups, and academic institutions.4 4. FTC maintains links to resources concerning scams and the current trends it has observed. See FTC’s “Coronavirus Advice for Consumers.” F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 3 Illicit actors can use imposter scams to defraud and deceive the vulnerable, including the elderly and unemployed, through the solicitation of payments (such as digital payments and virtual currency), donations, or personal information via email, robocalls, text messages,5 5. For information about COVID-19-related imposter scams conducted by text messages and phone calls, see the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), “COVID-19 Consumer Warnings and Safety Tips,” (May 20, 2020). The FTC and the FCC have sent warning letters to multiple Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service providers for allegedly routing illegal pandemic-related scam telemarketing or robocalls. See FTC Press Release, “FTC and FCC Send Joint Letters to Additional VoIP Providers Warning against ‘Routing and Transmitting’ Illegal Coronavirus-related Robocalls,” (May 20, 2020). or other communication methods. For example, an imposter may contact potential victims by phone, email, or text to imply that the victim must verify personal information or send payments to scammers in return for COVID-19-related stimulus payments or benefits, including Economic Impact Payments (EIP)6 6. EIP may take the form of Automated Clearing House (ACH) deposits, U.S. Treasury checks, or prepaid debit cards. See U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) Press Release “Treasury is Delivering Millions of Economic Impact Payments by Prepaid Debit Card,” (May 18, 2020). under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.7 7. The FTC, the IRS, and the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) each published information about imposter scams, particularly as they relate to EIP. See FTC Blog, “Want to Get Your Coronavirus Relief Check? Scammers do too,” (April 1, 2020) and “Coronavirus Checks: Flattening the Scam Curve,” (April 8, 2020); IRS News Release, “IRS Issues Warning About Coronavirus-related Scams; Watch Out For Schemes Tied To Economic Impact Payments,” (April 2, 2020) and the IRS’s Economic Impact Payment Information Center, (April 8, 2020); and TIGTA Press Release, “TIGTA Urges Taxpayers to “Be On High Alert” For Coronavirus Relief Payment Scams,” (April 7, 2020). Another instance includes imposters contacting victims and posing as government or health care representatives engaged in COVID-19 contact tracing activities, implying that a victim must share personal or financial information as part of contact tracing efforts.8 8. See Department of Justice (DOJ) Press Release “U.S. Attorney Warns Public of COVID-19 Contact Tracing Frauds,” (May 28, 2020). Multiple examples include phishing schemes, where imposters send communications appearing to come from legitimate sources, to collect victims’ personal and financial data and potentially infect their devices by convincing the target to download a malicious attachment or click malicious links.9 9. See Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) and the United Kingdom’s (U.K.) National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) Alert, “COVID-19 Exploited by Malicious Cyber Actors” (April 8, 2020); and DHS, “Common Scams: Know How to Spot a Fake.” Additionally, see WHO Cybersecurity, “Beware of Criminals Pretending to be WHO,” (April 2020). See also FTC Blog, “COVID-19 Scams Targeting College Students,” (May 27, 2020); and DOJ Press Release, “Federal Law Enforcement Encourages the Public to Remain Vigilant to Covid-19 Scams,” (April 22, 2020). Scammers may also impersonate legitimate charities or create sham charities, taking advantage of the generosity of the public and embezzling donations intended for COVID-19 response efforts.10 10. Multiple U.S. Attorneys’ Offices (USAOs) warn of criminals who may seek to exploit legitimate relief efforts for their own illicit gain by soliciting donations to sham charities or crowdfunding sites. See USAO for the Southern District of Georgia, “U.S. Attorney Warns of Coronavirus Scams Targeting Vulnerable Victims,” (March 25, 2020); USAO for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, “Department of Justice Requests Citizens be Aware of And Report COVID-19 Fraud,” (March 24, 2020); and USAO for the Middle District of Tennessee, “U.S. Attorney and FBI Urge the Public to Report Suspected Fraud Related to Tornado Destruction and COVID-19,” (March 23, 2020). Additionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) noted the potential for charity investment frauds, where actors falsely claim that investments will provide financial support or medical treatment to people in need, with the money instead stolen. See SEC Investor Alerts and Bulletins, “Frauds Targeting Main Street Investors -- Investor Alert,” (April 10, 2020). See also FTC’s information to avoid charity scams, “Make Your Coronavirus Donations Count,” (May 5, 2020). F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 4 Criminals often use social media accounts, door-to-door collections, flyers, mailings, telephone and robocalls, text messages, websites, and emails mimicking legitimate charities and non-profits to defraud the public. These operations may include words like “relief,” “fund,” “donation,” and “foundation” in their titles to give the illusion that they are a legitimate organization.11 11. See FTC, “How to Donate Wisely and Avoid Charity Scams.” Given that many scammers may be targeting customers as opposed to financial institutions directly, financial institutions, when interacting with their customers, should remain on the alert for potential suspicious activities. Financial red flag indicators of imposter scams may include: A customer indicating that a person claiming to represent a government agency contacted him or her by phone, email, text message, or social media asking for personal or bank account information to verify, process, or expedite EIPs, unemployment insurance, or other benefits. 12. For more information on EIPs, visit IRS, “Economic Impact Payment Information Center,” (June 30, 2020). In particular, be alert to communications emphasizing “stimulus check” or “stimulus payment” in solicitations to the public, sometimes claiming that the fraudulent entity can expedite the “stimulus check” or other government payment on behalf of the beneficiary for a fee paid by gift card or prepaid card. Email correspondence that contains subject lines that government or industry have identified as being associated with phishing campaigns, or that contains embedded links or webpage addresses for purported COVID-19 resources that have irregular URLs (e.g., slight variations in domain extensions like “.com,” “.org,” and “.us”). Examples of U.S. government-identified COVID-19 phishing email subject lines include “2020 Coronavirus Updates,” “Coronavirus Updates,” “2019-nCov: New confirmed cases in your City,” and “2019-nCov: Coronavirus outbreak in your city (Emergency).” 13. See DHS CISA and U.K. NCSC Alert, “COVID-19 Exploited by Malicious Cyber Actors,” (April 8, 2020). F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 5 Money Mule Schemes A money mule is “a person who transfers illegally acquired money on behalf of or at the direction of another.”14 14. See FBI, “Money Mule Awareness” (July 2019). For more information on money mules in general, see FinCEN, “Updated Advisory on Email Compromise Fraud Schemes Targeting Vulnerable Business Processes,” (July 16, 2019); “FinCEN Analysis: Bank Secrecy Act Reports Filed by Financial Institutions Help Protect Elders from Fraud and Theft of Their Assets,” (December 4, 2019); and DOJ, “Justice Department Announces Landmark Money Mule Initiative,” (December 4, 2019). Money mule schemes, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic, span the spectrum of using unwitting, witting, or complicit money mules.15 15. For more information about unwitting, witting, and complicit individuals involved in money mule scams, see FBI, “Money Mule Awareness” (July 2019). An unwitting or unknowing money mule is an individual who is “unaware that he or she is part of a larger criminal scheme.” The individual is motivated by his/her trust in the actual romance, job position or proposition.16 16. For examples of how an unwitting money mule is recruited and used, see id., p. 4. A witting money mule is an individual who “chooses to ignore obvious red flags or acts willfully blind to his/ her money movement activity.” The individual is motivated by financial gain or an unwillingness to acknowledge his/her role.17 17. For examples of how a witting money mule is recruited and used, see id., p. 5. A complicit money mule is an individual who is “aware of his/her role as a money mule and is complicit in the larger criminal scheme.” The individual is motivated by financial gain or loyalty to a criminal group.18 18. For examples of how a complicit money mule is recruited and used, see id. During the COVID-19 pandemic, U.S. authorities F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 6 have detected recruiters using money mule schemes, such as good-Samaritan, romance, and workfrom-home schemes.19 19. The FBI has released information on how criminals are taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic to steal money, access personal and financial information, and use individuals as money mules. See FBI Press Release, “FBI Warns of Money Mule Schemes Exploiting the COVID-19 Pandemic,” (April 6, 2020). In work-from-home schemes, for example, COVID-19 money mule recruiters, under a false charity or company label, may approach targets with a seemingly legitimate offer of employment under the pretense of work-from-home jobs, often through internet or social media advertisements, emails, or text messages. Once the target accepts the “employment,” he or she receives instructions to move funds through accounts or to set up a new account in the target’s name for the “business.” The target (i.e., the money mule) earns money by taking a percentage of the funds that he or she helps to transfer per the instructions of the “employer.” For more information on fraudulent job offers, see FTC Blog, “Looking for work after Coronavirus layoffs?,” (April 13, 2020). U.S. authorities also have identified criminals using money mules to exploit unemployment insurance programs during the COVID-19 pandemic.20 20. See Washington State Employment Security Department, “Statement from Commissioner Suzi LeVine on the rise in unemployment imposter fraud attempts,” (May 14, 2020) and “Update on imposter fraud from Commissioner Suzi LeVine,” (May 18, 2020). Financial red flag indicators of COVID-19 money mule schemes may include: F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 7 a. U.S. Service member who is reportedly stationed abroad; b. U.S. citizen working or traveling abroad; or c. U.S. citizen quarantined abroad. Information on Reporting Suspicious Activity Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) Filing Instructions SAR reporting, in conjunction with effective implementation of due diligence requirements by financial institutions, is crucial to identifying and stopping financial crimes, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Financial institutions should provide all pertinent and available information in the SAR and narrative. Adherence to the filing instructions below will improve FinCEN’s and law enforcement’s abilities to effectively identify actionable SARs using the FinCEN Query system and pull information to support COVID-19- related investigations. F I N C E N A D V I S O R Y 8 • FinCEN requests that financial institutions reference this advisory by including the key term “COVID19 MM FIN-2020-A003” in SAR field 2 (Filing Institution Note to FinCEN) and the narrative to indicate a connection between the suspicious activity being reported and the activities highlighted in this advisory. • Financial institutions should also select SAR field 34(z) (Fraud - other) as the associated suspicious activity type to indicate a connection between the suspicious activity being reported and COVID-19. Financial institutions should include the type of fraud and/or name of the scam or product (e.g., imposter scam or money mule scheme) in SAR field 34(z). In addition, FinCEN encourages financial institutions to report certain types of imposter scams and money mule schemes using fields such as SAR field 34(l) (Fraud- Massmarketing), or SAR field 38(d) (Other Suspicious Activities- Elder Financial Exploitation), as appropriate with the circumstances of the suspected activity. • Please refer to FinCEN’s Notice Related to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), which contains information regarding reporting COVID-19-related crime, and reminds financial institutions of certain BSA obligations. For Further Information Financial institutions should send questions or comments regarding the contents of this advisory to the FinCEN Regulatory Support Section at frc@fincen.gov. The mission of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is to safeguard the financial system from illicit use, combat money laundering and its related crimes including terrorism, and promote national security through the strategic use of financial authorities and the collection, analysis, and dissemination of financial intelligence.