The narrative section of the report is critical to understanding the nature and circumstances of
the suspicious activity. The care with which the narrative is completed may determine whether
the described activity and its possible criminal nature are clearly understood by investigators.
Filers must provide a clear, complete, and concise description of the activity, including what
was unusual or irregular that caused suspicion. This description should encompass the data
provided in Parts I through III, but should include any other information necessary to explain
the nature and circumstances of the suspicious activity. Filers should provide any information 
the filers believe necessary to better enable investigators to understand the reported suspicious
activity. Narratives must be completed in English. Filers should use the following checklist as a
guide for preparing the narrative:
 If filers have additional information pertaining to items in Parts I through IV this
information should be recorded in the narrative and referenced to the item number.
 If this report is a corrected or amended report, complete the report in its entirety with
whatever corrections or amendments were required. Describe the corrections or
amendments at the beginning of the narrative.
 If this report is a continuing report, describe the circumstances surrounding the
suspicious activity for the 90-day period encompassing the report. Include information
from prior FinCEN SAR narratives only when it is necessary for an understanding of the
nature and circumstances of the suspicious activity. Never include the entire narratives
of the prior FinCEN SARs.
 If any item in the report was insufficient for recording all item data held by the filer, or if
an item’s instructions require entry of additional data or explanation in the narrative,
record the additional data referenced by item number in the narrative.
 Information provided in other sections of the FinCEN SAR need not be repeated in the
narrative unless necessary to provide a clear and complete description of the suspicious
activity.
 Describe the conduct or transaction(s) that caused suspicion. If appropriate, this
description should be chronological when the activity involves multiple instances or
encompasses more than one day.
 Explain whether any transaction(s) involved were completed or only attempted.
 Explain who benefited and how they benefited, financially or otherwise, from the
activity.
 If the FinCEN SAR is jointly-filed, name all joint filers and describe the nature of
supporting document held by the joint filers. Provide the contact office name and
telephone number for each joint filer.
 Describe and retain any evidence of cover-up or evidence of an attempt to deceive
federal or state examiners or others.
 Describe and retain any admission or explanation of the activity or transaction(s)
provided by the subject(s), witness(s), or other person(s), including to whom and when
it was given.
 Indicate where the suspicious activity took place, e.g. branch, cage, gaming pit, agent
location, etc.
 Indicate whether the suspicious activity is an isolated incident or related to other
activity. 
112
 Indicate whether any U.S. or foreign currency or other negotiable instruments were
involved. If foreign currency or other foreign instruments, provide the foreign amount,
currency name, and country of origin.
 Indicate if there is any litigation related to the activity by specifying the name of the
litigation and court where the action is pending.
 Describe the nature of losses and recoveries related to the suspicious activity, including
aggregated losses and recoveries in continuing activity.
 Identify the names of financial institutions associated with account numbers when the
financial institution TINs were unknown.
 If the subject is a foreign national provide all available information on the subject’s
passport(s), visa(s), and other identification. Include identifying data such as issuing
date, country, document numbers, issuing authority, and nationality.
 If the suspicious activity involves transfers of funds to or from a foreign country or
currency exchanges involving foreign currencies, identify the foreign currency, country
of issue, and the source or destination of the funds.
 If a subject involved in the suspicious activity has an insider relationship with a financial
institution, describe the subject’s position with the financial institution and how that
position related to the suspicious activity.
 Indicate if any information was excluded from this report and explain the nature of the
excluded information and the reason(s) for exclusion.
 Provide information on the victims of the suspicious activity only when it is necessary
for a complete understanding of the activity. DO NOT record victim information in a
Part I Subject Information record.
 Provide information about the financial institution’s business policies and practices only
if it is necessary for a complete understanding of the suspicious activity. DO NOT
include legal disclaimers in the narrative. 